Now, we've looked at several aspects of the 96Boards ecosystem and we've focused,
we've honed in on
all the different resources you have available for the DragonBoard 410c.
But now it's time to kind of take
a step back and approach it from a developer standpoint.
We want to start looking at the different tools that we're going to be
using during our development process throughout the rest of your specialization.
And this is where the mezzanine ecosystem comes into play.
So, what are we going to cover in this video?
First, Rajan asks the question,
What is mezzanine?
Then, we'll talk about the mezzanine ecosystem at
more of a high level what is the mezzanine ecosystem.
We'll see the different types of boards that we have available on the market right now.
Then we'll go over our resources and throughout the course of this lesson,
we're going to see a lot more about mezzanines and
the different initiatives that are around the DragonBoard 410c.
So, Rajan once again.
So, in terms of what's available to the developers, right?
I think you hit a very good point earlier
when you said tools available to the developers, right?
It's really important to enable the developers with the right tools for
their vertical that they are targeting and if they are equipped with the right tools,
they can actually make a difference, right?
And with that said, we have the DragonBoard which is a development platform, right?
But it's not all encompassing.
It's basically, with the DragonBoard,
you have an entire 96Board ecosystem that goes with the DragonBoard
and for somebody new coming to the ecosystem,
that is new to the environment,
they will always have this question, what is a mezzanine?
Yes. So, that's why we have this slide for
you and we're going to kind of summarize this as quickly as possible.
Now, many of you have probably heard of
the Raspberry Pi Hat or the Arduino Shield, right?
Well, essentially a hat is something that's on
top and a shield is something that's in front or maybe on top, I guess.
The mezzanine is also something that is considered to be an upper layer.
Now, many airports you may have gone to or malls,
they have their mezzanine level,
and that's the level that's above other levels.
So, that's where the name mezzanine comes from.
It is similar to the Raspberry Pi Hat and the Arduino Shield in
that it sits on top of your DragonBoard 410c.
Now, what is the purpose of this mezzanine and
what Rajan was talking about when you look at developer tools, right?
Your 96Board, your DragonBoard 410c,
that's a small footprint.
I mean, you're talking the size of a credit card.
You're talking about putting all of this functionality onto something very tiny,
and in a lot of cases not everything and not everyone will need
every single aspect of your input-output that would be available to you.
In actuality, if I don't work with cameras,
I don't need access to cameras, right?
So, mezzanines come into play when you want to extend the 96Boards' capabilities,
and this means you're honing in on the high speed and
low speed headers that are available to you for your I/O, your different I/O.
Now, when you look at mezzanines, which we're going to,
you can actually see them on the slide there,
these are all different shapes and forms of mezzanines.
But the one thing they have in common is that they all snap onto your DragonBoard 410c.
That's amazing.
That means that the people who made these mezzanines,
community, industry partners alike, they all said,
"I'm going to take into account all of the different inputs and
outputs on the low speed and high speed expansion headers of the DragonBoard
and I am going to make sure that this board accents a feature, some feature."
Now, the beauty of this is that the 96Boards ecosystem is very large,
and people might be making mezzanines for all different purposes.
The good thing is that even if they made this for something else,
for a purpose that they care about,
you can still consume it because you're using a
96Boards and the DragonBoard is ideal for that.
Now, they do serve a specific purpose.
In many cases, you're going to find that,
and we'll talk about this in a minute,
that maybe one mezzanine addresses cameras.
Another mezzanine might address sensors.
One mezzanine might address sensors and cameras, right?
You just never really know and the people just keep pushing out these mezzanines and I
think that we're coming into a time where the possibilities are now endless.
People are just exploring and creating
all sorts of cool new ways to interact with your DragonBoard.
What's the last point here?
Fun projects and/or serious development.
So, from start to finish, right?
So, it's basically any vertical that you want to target either you are a hobbyist,
you want to do something for your home,
you can get mezzanines that interact with
basic sensors like light sensors, proximity sensors,
ultrasonic sensors, moisture sensors,
to if you want to really go into industrial projects with a low range RF, right?
So, you have mezzanines targeting board spectrums off of use cases.
And I've run into all different kinds of people, right?
So, I mean, there are some people who are using
their DragonBoard as a hobbyist, like Rajan said.
And then you would just maybe say want to accent some sensors,
use some of the GPIOs,
some of that functionality to have some fun.
Now, we're going to talk a
little bit deeper on all the different mezzanines that are available.
I missed the point. So, opens doors in path to product.
And we'll talk more about this later in this section.
Yes, excellent. So the mezzanine ecosystem.
Now, we can talk all day about this.
I'm pretty sure that Rajan and I combined.
Robert can talk all day about this.
I'll talk all day and he'll listen.
I'll let him talk, I'll vouch for that, yeah.
So, the best thing you can do for yourself is to go visit the the mezzanine ecosystem.
This is a guideline section here.
So, we have what is a mezzanine described up on top.
You can see all the different mezzanines that 96Boards is hosting.
All of these should be compatible with your DragonBoard 410c.
So, take some time. Maybe pause the video right here.
We'll have you pause it again when we get to the resources section.
But pause the video here and go take a look real quick at the mezzanine section.
We're not going to click it or show you,
you can go check it out yourself.
But for those of you who continue on,
we are going to walk through some of
the most prominent mezzanines that are currently available to you right now.
Now, we were talking about sensors, right?
Here are four mezzanines that are available to you.
And maybe we can get a shot of some of these here on the table that we have.
But here are four mezzanine that are available to you.
One which we have out which is the STM32.
Something to notice on the STM32 is that this mezzanine,
once again you look at the backside,
you have the high speed connector and then you have the low speed connector right here.
So this just seamlessly plugs right on top of
your DragonBoard and accents a variety of features.
This one brings out not only sensors or, sorry,
not only I/O but it also brings out
the ability to use a camera from the high speed expansion header.
Another good thing to note here, which is really cool,
is that if you look very carefully,
you'll see two headers that come along the vertical here.
These headers are identical to the Arduino output, right?
So, the footprint of the Arduino.
That means that any shield that you would be able to
use with the Arduino would be able to be used on top of this mezzanine.
So, stack this on your DragonBoard.
If you want to use some Arduino stuff,
stack that on top here.
Now, this isn't an Arduino chip and Arduino, I believe, is a branding.
This is a different chip.
Yeah, this has the STM microchip on it.
So, any developer who is familiar with working in the STM space,
if they've worked with those microcontrollers before,
this is a good starting point for them to start interacting with different sensors,
and actually do a lot of the core processing on the DragonBoard and
just leave the sensor driving the sensors to the STM board.
So, honestly, this board has packed quite a few things on here.
You also have access to the serial console here,
which is on one of the UARTs.
You have access to the different I/Os here,
which would allow you to be compatible with Arduino shields.
You have access, I believe, to I2Cs,
over here various GPIO, cameras.
I mean, there's a lot of cool stuff going on here.
So, this is definitely one that's worth checking out.
It is available, I believe,
on Arrow.com as well as some other sites.
Another one that you just saw on that slide would be the 96Boards sensor mezzanine.
And this one was one of the first mezzanines ever created.
To be honest, it was created by one of our fellows or our fellow of Linaro,
Grant Likely, and this was one of the original 96Boards templates.
Now, once again, you can also see that first of all,
it breaks out different Grove connectors for I2C use,
GPIO use, as well as once again the Arduino header.
So, making your DragonBoard compatible with Arduino shields.
Very cool. Very cool.
Now, one thing you won't see here is the high speed expansion header, right?
So, there was no reason to break out the high speed expansion header.
They're not really using cameras on this one like the STM one does.
Another I/O mezzanine, do we have another I/O mezzanine out here?
There were more on the slides.
So, we don't have any more on the table here but there are more
on the slide and there are more available to you.
Oh yes, so the Arrow kit.
Either way, I think that's upside down,
but either way, there are plenty of them.
Please feel free to visit the website.
Moving on to more capabilities, sensors, cameras.
We consider cameras to be a sensor, right?
So, here are more options for you to use.
The STM1 is up there again.
But now, we have options like the AIStar vision.
This mezzanine was created literally just for cameras.
Now, a really cool thing about this is they also chose to break out various IO.
However, it's not necessarily set up as the STM-1 or the sensors mezzanine is.
This was a really cool story.
I believe some folks up in the Bay area,
needed a camera mezzanine,
and this was before industrial versions of the camera mezzanine existed.
Instead of just waiting for it to happen,
they built it themselves.
They just said, "Hey, 96Boards specification.
I love the DragonBoard 410C.
I want to work with it. I need a camera," and they built this.
Now, you can go to eBay and you can buy
this for the cost of what it cost them to make it.
I think it's 25 bucks or something.
Very reasonable priced board and it holds two cameras.
So very cool. Definitely worth checking out.
So, another camera mezzanine is basically the D3 mezzanine that we see right here.
That's another camera mezzanine that's
actually bringing out both the MPI-CSI connectors from the DragonBoard
and you can see the connectors right here that you can connect the camera mezzanines.
One of the other things they also do is they pull out
the GPIOs on the headers right here.
Main difference between this and something like SD Micro is that SD Micro has
brought it out to be groove connectors and they are level-shifted.
Whereas, for a D3, the GPIOs are not level-shifted.
They're just brought up from the DragonBoard as is.
So, basic through pin.
Through pin.
We'll talk about one more real quick here.
And this is the AeroCore2.
This board was used in various 96Boards demos.
It was showcased on open hours at one point.
This is the bottom of it.
So, you can see once again,
here's the high speed connector that snaps into the DragonBoard.
Here's the low speed connector.
Now the form factor,
you can also see,
is not the same size as these other boards, right?
So, there are no real limits
to your mezzanine when it comes to what you're putting on top,
the size you're putting on top.
You're more so limited to the spacing between the mezzanine itself and the board.
So, you have a bit of a spacing issue more so than the size that you put on top.
But this one is ideal for drones.
Now believe it or not you can buy this board,
you can buy a DragonBoard 410c,
you can follow our instructions, I believe,
on Qualcomm Developer Network or 96Boards,
and get your bill or materials fulfilled,
walk away with a awesome drone that you built yourself.
And this one also has CAN Bus interface.
So, if you want to talk at automotive industry also this one is a good choice for that.
It has onboard CAN Bus. So you can talk to automotive CAN standards with this.
Great. Back to the slides.
We are making a mess over here.
Next one, HDMI and MIPI-DSI.
Now, I don't have any camera mezzanines here on the table,
but believe me, they're out there. More are coming out.
We really hope to see some high efficiency,
good quality screen mezzanines to come out soon.
Connectivity.
Now, these two are just only recently announced and recently made available.
These are on the table.
I'll talk about one of them right here and then Rajan can talk about the other.
But the first one here is the Ethernet mezzanine.
Now this is a very cool mezzanine because not
only does it allow you to connect to the internet,
everyone wants the internet through ethernet,
but it also has the ability to offer power over ethernet,
otherwise known as POE.
So with the right connector,
with the right cable,
you can give yourself power over ethernet.
This is ideal for networking,
all sorts of applications that would require you to be kind of wired in, right?
On top of that,
this board offers the through pin connector,
which allows you to stack other mezzanines on top.
Say, for instance, you are stacked in,
you have your ethernet plugged in here but then you
still want to plug in a sensor mezzanine as well.
Well, you can just take your sensor mezzanine,
plug that right on top of your ethernet mezzanine and then you'll
have your stackable system there on top of your DragonBoard.
So these are all stackable,
at least for the most part,
provided the limitations of size and stuff,
but very good mezzanine.
I think, also, there's a TPM chip on here for those of you who are interested in security
and you can find out more about this again by just visiting the 96Boards mezzanine page.
So, next one we have is LoRa mezzanine.
Again, you see the low-speed expansion header right here.
If you are developing an application where you need to talk to
Beacons wirelessly or a large range,
the LoRa technology is perfect for that.
So, you can see the low- speed expansion header pulled up right here.
Again, this is also stackable.
So, you can stack more mezzanine on top of this.
This is built by LinkSprite in collaboration with Arrow.
So, you can get more resources
for the LoRa technology and this mezzanine on LinkSprite's website.
Great. So, back to the slides.
We can start looking at what else we have.
Two security mezzanines and there's more than this, right?
These are just ones that I was able to throw up on the slides.
Again, I would highly encourage anyone watching this to go poke around the internet,
do some Google searches for 96Boards security mezzanine or 96Boards mezzanine in general.
You'll just see a whole bunch of stuff.
I can't even keep up with the amount of things that are being pushed out.
However, here's some cool mezzanines,
one of which was announced just in Linaro Connect 2017 in San Francisco,
which is the Secure96.
Prior to that, the one on the other side,
the fingerprint and retina scanner,
that's from ArcherMind and that was announced in early 2017 in Budapest.
But, they just keep coming out.
And if you have any more questions here,
you can kind of take a look,
maybe pause it, explore little mezzanines.
There are all shapes and sizes audience mezzanines.
We got to pull out one.
Do you have a mezzanine in mind that you would like to see from the community out there?
Yes, absolutely.
There are many of them, and in fact,
Rajan, we are going to cover that in one of the future videos.
Okay. That's good.
So, we have a lot of really cool stuff to show you.
We have a whole initiative dedicated towards listening to you, the community.
We want to make sure that your needs are met when you're using your DragonBoard,
and you want to access something that you don't have availability to access,
we want to make that possible, right?
So, stay tuned.
Again, we're going to be touching on more mezzanines,
and again, here you go, some mezzanines that have been stacked on here.
But we'll be talking about those later.
So, as you've probably grown used to doing,
this is the time where we pause and reflect on
the things that we've talked about throughout this video.
As you can see, we have our resource slide up.
Please take the time to go visit
the 96Boards mezzanine landing page and the guidelines documentation,
which we will be talking about in our next video if you want
to be one of those overachievers that gets ahead of us.
So, thank you very much.
We'll see you in the next video.
Please take the time to go check out and
explore all the cool stuff we were just talking about.